In Burpee’s Farm Annual for 1887 we offered cash prizes for the two
best essays, to be sent us by October, 1887, upon the subject, “HOW AND
WHAT TO GROW IN A KITCHEN GARDEN OF ONE ACRE.” In its original form E.
D. DARLINGTON’S essay covered more fully than any other the operations
and best methods to pursue in the management of the garden, and was
awarded the first prize. Being desirous, however, of making this work
not only practical but thoroughly complete in all departments, and from
personal acquaintance with Mr. Darlington and his gardening operations,
together with the fact that for some years he had tested numerous
varieties of vegetables for us, we arranged with him to entirely revise
and enlarge his essay. In compliance with our request he has entered
more into detail in the directions for culture, and has added impartial
descriptions of the varieties that he has found best adapted both to
the Kitchen Garden and the table. To make the treatise more complete,
he prepared a diagram of his own kitchen garden, which is one acre
in size, as laid out for a year’s work. Some varieties grown are not
marked in the diagram, as they are worked in as parts of other rows,
but this is all fully explained in the body of his treatise.

To add to the value of the book as a plain and practical guide for the
novice in gardening, we have had illustrations engraved showing the two
plans of hotbeds, the methods of storing roots for winter use, etc. We
have also inserted engravings, mostly drawn from nature, of the leading
varieties of vegetables described in the text, that the gardener may
have an accurate idea of the form of the different varieties and may be
able to tell whether his products are of the right type.

We take pleasure, also, in publishing the essay of Miss L. M. MOLL,
of Illinois, which was awarded the second prize. We are glad to note
that she has been explicit in describing the culture of some of the
less generally grown varieties of salads and herbs which are valuable
adjuncts to the table, and upon which Mr. Darlington has failed to
treat. Some of the methods described in this essay are, however,
unnecessarily laborious. For instance, the wide bed of perennials, as
described, would require considerable hand labor to keep the soil loose
and free from weeds; while, if planted in long rows, horse cultivation
would lessen this tedious work and would also loosen the ground to a
greater depth. The varieties recommended by Miss Moll, while generally
good, have in some cases been surpassed by improved varieties of more
recent introduction.

As presented in the following pages, the two essays will, we believe,
make this book, for general use, the most complete and practical
treatise on gardening published. Such has been our earnest endeavor,
and we are confident that it will be recognized as a thoroughly
trustworthy guide. With careful study of its teachings, the novice
should be able to plant and successfully manage a Kitchen Garden, be it
one acre, more or less, while we trust that experienced gardeners will
find much to commend and will be able to gain some new ideas.

In order to treat this subject in detail, I shall first write on what
the kitchen garden should be, where it should be, and how to keep it in
the best order to produce the desired results, then take up “What to
grow” and “How to grow it.”

The garden should be situated conveniently near the farm buildings, as
it should be visited frequently; a variety of tools are needed in its
care, and each should be put away as soon as done with, that it may be
preserved in the best order for use. It is often necessary to carry
water to help along young transplanted stock that has been overtaken
by a dry spell. Where the distance has to be traversed so frequently,
it naturally follows that the shorter it is the greater will be the
saving in time and the less likely is the garden to be neglected.

The garden should be as nearly level as possible, or, if sloping,
not so much so as to be in danger of being washed by heavy rains. If
sloping, the slope should lie to the south, or as nearly south as
possible. A plantation or hedge of evergreens on the north side of the
garden will be found a wonderful aid to the earliness of the garden
truck and to the hardiness of the small fruit plants and roots which
remain in the ground all winter; if a woods or high hill be directly on
the north and northwest of your garden, it will answer nearly as well
as the hedge of evergreens. The garden should be so situated as to have
good surface drainage; without this or expensive underdraining, it will
hardly be possible to raise early or fine vegetables at any profit.
These I consider the most essential points in selecting the plot for
the garden; of course, a good, rich soil is to be desired, but the
gardener can, by the liberal use of manure and thorough cultivation,
remedy a deficiency of this kind in a couple of years, while he cannot
make a favorable location for early vegetables on a north slope if
he should try a lifetime. By a careful study of the varieties in
cultivation, and by trials of their merits in your garden and _on
your table_, experience will be gained which will enable you to grow
as fine vegetables and fruits on heavy soil as on light, sandy loam,
and _vice versa_.

Ground that has been worked in some cultivated farm crop, such as
corn or potatoes, is more desirable for starting a garden than fresh
sod land, as it is more easily brought into fine condition in the
early spring; while grass is one of the hardest weeds to exterminate,
especially among small hoed crops, such as strawberries, onions, beets,
etc. Sod land is also often full of grubs, which work havoc among the
strawberry plants and young melon and squash vines. In either new
ground or in the old established garden, it will be of great advantage
to put the long, coarse manure on the ground in the fall, and plow it
well under as soon as the ground can be cleared of the summer crops.
The soil should be left just as it is plowed, without harrowing,
leaving the lumps and ridges to the action of the frost. This will be
found of especial benefit to heavy soils that are late in drying in the
spring; it also adds a great deal to the appearance and cleanliness of
the garden, as the weeds, old stalks, etc., are all cut off and burnt
before plowing, instead of being left to scatter their seeds with every
winter wind.

The gases arising from the decaying of the coarse manure in the soil
tend to lighten it, instead of being wasted in the air, as is the case
when the manure is in heaps or in the barnyard. By plowing-time in
the spring the manure will have assimilated with the soil and will be
thoroughly worked through the cultivated surface, thus affording food
for the crops in all stages. If such manure is applied in the spring,
it will make dry or thin soil still drier, and unless plowed well
under, where it would take the roots a long time to reach it, will
burn the young plants up if the season should happen to be a dry one.
The great value of compost in starting young plants is that it affords
rich food in proper form for the tender young rootlets, enabling the
young plants to make a quick, tender growth, which is very essential if
vegetables of fine quality are desired. By fall manuring and plowing
the whole garden is composted, while the action of the frost on the
lumps and ridges pulverizes them, leaving the soil in a fine, friable
condition.


                        LAYING OUT THE GARDEN.

It is most convenient to have the garden as nearly square as possible,
which in our garden of one acre will be 208 x 208 feet. This makes the
length of the rows a very good measure of the quantity to be grown,
and affords as many rows to the ground as can be profitably worked,
for it is desirable that the rows should be as nearly east and west
as possible, and they should be the long way of the plot (if not a
square), as it will result in great saving of time in planting and
cultivating. Moving the line and drawing the cultivators out of one row
and turning into the next, takes nearly as much time as the working of
the short row.

In plowing, a good, wide headland should be left at each end of the
garden; it should be wide enough to allow the horse and cultivator to
come clear out from between the rows and to turn into the next row,
without damaging the plants at the ends of the rows by trampling and
dragging the cultivator over them.

In winter, while there is plenty of time before the spring opens, the
summer campaign should be planned--what vegetables are to be raised and
what quantity of each will be needed, in what part of the garden it
will be best to plant each variety so that the pollen from different
members of the same family, such as cucumbers and cantaloupes, will not
mix and spoil each other’s fine flavor. If the soil is of different
quality in different parts of the garden, it should be planned so that
the heavy and the lighter portions shall be occupied by such crops as
will succeed best in the respective soils.

Ease of cultivation and the rotation or succession of crops should
also be considered. The small-growing plants which require hand hoeing
should be together, and likewise those which are to be worked with the
horse cultivator. Where the ground is to bear two crops--one planted
after the other has matured and been taken off--it will be of advantage
to have such crops together, thus making larger plots for the replowing
and a consequent saving of time and work.

Beside these conditions in laying out a new garden, when it comes to
the second or succeeding seasons, the crop or crops raised in the plot
the year before must be taken into account. The situation of the crop
of each particular vegetable should be moved to another part, as each
draws certain proportions of the food elements from the soil, and
those of a different character should occupy the ground in rotation,
that the soil may be kept in the richest state. Thus the quality or
size of the crop will not be lessened by being planted in a situation
that it has depleted, to some extent, of its own particular food the
year before. Reference should also be had to the kind of food which
the plant requires, as in the case of strawberries and potatoes, which
should not succeed each other without special manures, as they both
exhaust, to a great extent, the potash in the soil, so that the soil,
having borne a heavy crop of one, would of necessity make but a poor
return of the other if planted in direct succession. If this cannot
be overcome by a change of location, the gardener will know that the
proper food elements have been depleted by the previous crop, and must
try to supply them with special manure or commercial fertilizers.

It is of great importance to rapid work and good gardening that all
this should be arranged and settled in the gardener’s mind, or better,
plotted out on paper, before the first plowing is done in the spring.
The plan being kept would be valuable in laying out the garden the
succeeding year, as it would show just where each vegetable had been
grown and where the different kinds of manure had been applied. If, in
addition, the success of the various crops and notes of their growth
were marked upon it, it would form a most valuable text-book for the
study of improved gardening, each garden being an experimental station
and each gardener a student in pursuit of knowledge and advancement
in his work, feeding at the same time both physical and intellectual
needs.


                        DIAGRAM OF THE GARDEN.

The accompanying plan may be of use to the novice in gardening on
the scale suggested by our subject, as it is planned to admit of a
proportionate quantity of such vegetables and fruits as are grown in
the ordinary garden, while directions for planting and cultivating the
various vegetables will be found in the special descriptions of the
several varieties. (See p. 16.)


                    PROCURING THE SEEDS AND PLANTS.

  [Illustration:

                            KEY TO DIAGRAM.

   ROW NO. 1. 25 grape vines, planted about 7½ feet apart. The
   first three years these are trained to plain stakes or bean
   poles, the space in the rows between the vines being planted
   with strawberries, peas, beans or some other low-growing crop,
   to occupy the ground and insure good cultivation. When the vines
   have made strong canes and have reached the tops of the poles, a
   post is set at each vine and a trellis made, as described in the
   chapter on grapes. This row is six feet distant from the north
   boundary line of the garden.

   ROWS NO. 2. These rows are twelve feet distant from each other
   and from the row of grapes, and are planted with blackberry
   vines, at a distance of three feet in the rows. Though this may
   seem like a good deal of “elbow room,” it is as close as they
   can be planted to keep them in good order; if planted closer
   they will form an impenetrable jungle by the end of the second
   season.

   ROWS NO. 3. These two rows are planted with red and black
   raspberries, the rows also twelve feet apart, but the plants set
   2½ feet apart in the rows.

   ROW NO. 4. This is planted with rhubarb, sage and thyme,
   currants and gooseberries, and is twelve feet distant from the
   rows on either side.

   ROW NO. 5. Is twelve feet from row No. 4, and is planted with
   asparagus, as described in the special chapter on that vegetable.

   ROWS NO. 6. These two rows are to be planted with spring-set
   strawberries for the next year’s crop, and are four feet distant
   from the asparagus and from each other. The strawberries
   are intended to be grown on the matted row plan, and to be
   cultivated with the horse cultivator; if they are to be grown in
   stools, another row can be planted between them, and the whole
   worked with the wheel or hand hoes.

   ROW NO. 7. This row is for watermelons or cantaloupes, and the
   line of hills is six feet distant from the row on either side.
   The space in the row between the hills can be planted with egg
   plants, cabbage, lettuce or such other plants as may be desired.

   ROW NO. 8. This row is a space four feet wide, with room for
   the cultivator on either side; this is raked fine and planted
   in four rows one foot apart, the first row containing beets and
   carrots; the second, onions; the third, lettuce, radishes, etc.;
   the fourth, with a dozen plants of parsley, and the balance of
   the row in endive and parsnips. When the two middle rows have
   been cut out, the cultivator can be used to work the beets,
   parsnips, etc., in the outside rows.

   ROW NO. 9. This row is three feet distant from the parsnips, and
   is planted with early cauliflower and early cabbage, with two
   plants of lettuce between each of the other plants, which are
   set 1½ feet apart.

   ROWS NO. 10. These are four rows of peas, different plantings,
   two kinds, early and medium, in each row, in equal quantities,
   rows three feet apart. These are to be pulled out as soon as the
   crop is gathered, and two rows of celery planted six feet apart.

   ROWS NO. 11. Here are four rows of early sweet corn, in four
   plantings of successive kinds, to be cleared off and followed
   by turnips, drilled in rows one foot apart, and worked with the
   wheel hoe; or the seed may be broad-casted after a thorough
   cultivating, when the ears of corn are well set, without
   clearing the ground. This is not nearly so satisfactory a plan
   as to wait until the ground can be cleared and drilled. The rows
   of corn should be four feet apart.

   ROWS NO. 12. Two rows, 4½ feet apart, of Lima beans, with the
   poles about 2½ feet apart in the row.

   ROW NO. 13. This row should have six feet clear on each side
   for the vines to run, and is to be planted with cucumbers and
   squashes. The space between the hills can be occupied with
   pepper plants or sweet corn.

   ROWS NO. 14. Two rows of tomatoes, four feet apart.

   ROWS NO. 15. Four rows of late sweet corn, four feet apart.

   ROWS NO. 16. Two rows of sweet potatoes, five feet apart and
   five feet from the corn and pole beans on either side.

   ROW NO. 17. One row of pole snap beans. About three kinds should
   be planted, that they may be had in succession.

   ROWS NO. 18. Five rows early potatoes, three feet apart, plowed
   in when the ground is plowed in the spring. When cultivated for
   the last time, plant a row of late cabbage between each row of
   potatoes; when the latter are ripe, dig with a fork, clear the
   ground of vines and cultivate the cabbage thoroughly.

   ROWS NO. 19. Sweet corn planted between the rows of berry
   bushes; a large late variety will be the best for this purpose.

   ROWS NO. 20. Two rows of fruiting strawberries, to be plowed
   under and be replaced by peas sown in August. This, of course,
   applies only to a garden of at least a year’s standing; and the
   fruiting plants of strawberries will come in a fresh place each
   year. The rows No. 6 being the bearing plants next season.]

Having the plan of work all settled, the next thing is to know what
is to be grown, the varieties of each that are best adapted to the
situation and soil of the garden, and where they can be procured of the
best quality. Under this head come the seeds needed for the vegetables
and the roots, tips and runners for the plantings of small fruits. This
should be done as soon as convenient, as I have found by experience it
is a great saving to have the entire supply of seeds on hand a week
or two before it is possible to begin planting. This is an important
item, as I have sometimes lost my crop from planting inferior seed
purchased at the last moment from the commissioned seeds that are sold
in the country stores. It does not pay to economize or try to garden
with poor seeds; it is a waste of time and labor in planting, and a
waste of ground and manure, as the inferior vegetables raised will
hardly cover the original cost of the seed. The gardener who sells his
products, unless his crops are of the best, will soon find his trade
falling off, and will be compelled to seek new customers each market
day. Personally, I have found it more satisfactory and productive of
better results to buy each season almost all the seeds needed from
some reliable seedsman, rather than to depend on those of my own
saving. For instance, such as peas, sweet corn and other vegetables,
where the earlier the crop is ready to market the greater the profit;
these mature much earlier if the seed is procured from reliable
seedsmen who have their supplies grown in the North. Such northern
grown seeds retain their instinct to hurry up and mature in a short
season, while in one’s own saving they begin even in the first year to
grow more leisurely and to accommodate themselves to the longer season.
In the case of peas, those grown in Northern New York and Canada, such
as are sold by all our leading seedsmen, will mature from one to two
weeks earlier than those saved in our own neighborhood. The northern
peas are also generally free from the weevil or striped bug, which
bores the large round hole in all the home-saved peas and destroys
their germinating power. So it is with almost every known variety of
vegetable; each has some special locality in which it reaches a higher
degree of perfection than in others less favorably situated. While,
of course, these facts are of interest to the gardener, they are only
learned after years of experience, and it is the seedsman’s business
to know the peculiarities of the different varieties, and to raise or
procure his stock from the best strains grown in the most favorable
localities. It is for the gardener to purchase from a seedsman whom
he knows to be thoroughly reliable, and whose interest it will be to
serve him with prompt shipments and carefully-selected strains of the
vegetables desired. All this is equally true of the nursery-man or
small-fruit grower from whom the supply of roots and plants is to be
purchased. On no part of the farm is “_Pedigree Stock_” of more
importance than in the kitchen garden. I will speak further on of the
saving of seeds, and refer now only to those which it is necessary to
buy. First, it is often a saving of several days to have the seed on
hand, as it is sometimes impossible to foretell just when you will
need the seed to plant a certain plot, how soon the ground will be fit
to work, or how soon will come the opportunity, in the press of other
work; if you have the seed at hand that part is always ready, and this
is quite an item where the garden frequently has to be attended to in
the intervals of farm work. Next, it is a cash saving to order all
your seeds at one time. If, as is most frequently the case, you have
to send to some large city for your supply, by procuring all that you
need at one time, you have but one freight or express charge to pay.
In making up your order, stick to the old varieties that you know suit
your soil and your market; all the more if your market is your own
table, for the greatest pleasure in gardening is in testing the merits
of your fruits and vegetables with the appetite engendered by their
culture. Also take into consideration the preferences of the household
department as to the cooking merits of the different varieties. Do not
experiment with your main crop of any vegetable, but do not neglect
to try such new varieties as seem to possess merit, for the varieties
are being continually improved by good culture and selection, as well
as by hybridization or cross-breeding. To have a fine garden, the
gardener must know the merits of all new and old varieties, and be as
progressive as is the successful man in any other line of business. I
know of nothing so interesting as watching the growth and development
of some new and improved variety that has been recommended to the
gardening public in the most glowing terms, and often in glowing colors
on a beautiful colored plate. Although I have been “taken in” fully
as often as the average gardener of my experience, I have been many
times repaid all trouble and outlay by the numerous successes that I
have met with and the great improvement in some of the varieties grown.
Sometimes I have made quite a nice little sum out of these novelties,
when I have been able to sell the selected seed of the new variety to
some other seedsman or to my neighbors. In these new varieties, more
than in any others, do you need to order early, or, instead of the seed
that you desire and which is to make reputation and money for you,
“being something superior to anything ever grown before,” you may get
one of those provoking little slips stating that the seedsman “regrets
to inform you that, owing to the great demand, the supply is exhausted
for this season, and hopes that the substituted kind will do as well.”


                       HOTBEDS AND COLD FRAMES.

With a garden of this size I would have hotbeds, cold frames and rich
seed beds of fine light soil; these I would not have in the garden
itself unless that be the most convenient place. Where there is time
to attend to them, they will be a measure of economy, it being much
cheaper to raise than to buy the plants, if you use more than a few
dozens, while, if you have the time and room, quite a business can be
done by supplying your neighbors who do not garden on such an extensive
scale. It is best to locate the frames on the sunny side of a barnyard
wall, or against a building that will shield them from the north wind
and make a warm nook for them on sunshiny days. They should be situated
conveniently near both to the manure pile and to a good supply of
water, where they will constantly be under the eye in passing to and
from the farm work and will not suffer neglect from being forgotten or
overlooked. It is quite important that there should be good drainage
from these beds, as they are most needed at a rainy time of the year;
dampness is not only injurious to the young plants, but it also takes
up a great deal of the heat which should go toward forwarding the
growth of the young plants. The sashes can be bought, ready painted
and glazed, at the planing mills in most cities, and this is much the
cheapest way to procure them, as they can often be bought for what the
bare sash would cost in a small order at a country shop. They come 3¼
feet wide by 6 feet in length, and are 1½ to 2 inches in thickness, and
if stored in the dry when not in use, and are treated to an occasional
coat of paint, will last a lifetime.

Three or four sash would be amply sufficient for a garden of an acre if
used in succession, sowing one lot of seed as the preceding planting
is set out in the garden; though, of course, more sash can be handled
without any great increase of labor, and the season much advanced by
growing radishes, lettuce, beets, etc., to maturity under the glass.

  [Illustration: Illustration showing the manner of making the
  hotbed when sunk below the surface of the ground.]

In making the hotbed, dig a trench a few inches short of six feet in
width, or as wide as the sashes will cover, about two feet in depth
and as long as the combined width of the number of sashes which you
wish to use. This is then to be boarded up with rough boards, but they
should be neatly joined and plastering laths or building paper tacked
over the cracks, so as not to waste the heat. The back or north side of
this frame should be 6 or 8 inches higher than the front, so that the
rain may run off the sashes. The sashes held at an angle in this manner
will also receive more sunlight for the front part of the bed than if
front and back were level. The whole frame of the bed should be banked
round with the dirt thrown out, or better with fresh stable manure,
which will help to keep it warm and will make a bank to drain away any
surface water, which, being very cold in the spring, would, if allowed
to penetrate the bed, tend to chill the heat of the fermenting manure,
and consequently check the growth of the young and tender plants, even
if it did not generate that great enemy of all young plants, fungus or
mildew, causing them to rot or “damp off.”

  [Illustration: Illustration showing the manner of
  constructing a hotbed above the surface of the ground.]

Or, if there is plenty of fresh stable manure at hand, it can be corded
in a pile two feet high and extending a foot wider than the sash frame
on all sides; and when the frame has been put in position on the heap,
the manure should be carried up on the outside nearly to the top of the
boards, making a warm jacket for the plants within. A portable frame of
boards is made for the sash to rest on, twelve inches high at the back
and eight inches in front. This style of bed does away with any digging
and secures good drainage for the bed. It would probably be the most
satisfactory way for the gardener, who is also a farmer, as the bed can
easily be removed as soon as it has served its purpose for the season,
and the manure, which has become well rotted by this time will make an
excellent compost for corn, melons, celery, etc. The frame and sash can
also be set on a good piece of ground in the fall and filled with young
lettuce plants in the early part of October, which will furnish salad
throughout the winter.

The manure and litter which are to produce the heat for the bed should
be thoroughly forked over and heaped together a week or ten days before
the beds are to be started. While a large proportion of the material
should be fresh horse stable manure, where a large quantity of heating
material is needed, it can be mixed with any litter obtainable, such as
straw, leaves from the woods, weeds, cut fodder, or anything that will
furnish bulk and that will decay rapidly, and, by decaying, produce
heat; when the material has all been gathered and heaped solidly
together, a good sprinkling with water, hot, if possible, will aid in
starting the fermentation. In about a week or two, when the heat of the
heap has gone down to 95° or 100°, the manure should be placed in the
beds and well trampled down; it should come up to within eight inches
of the front of the frame and should be covered with about three and a
half or four inches of fine, rich soil. It is a good plan to sift the
dirt through a coal sieve, as it then makes a fine bed for the seeds
and young plants.

Place the sashes on as soon as this is done; handling the manure and
repacking it will produce some fresh heat and it will still be too warm
to sow any seed, but the heat will destroy such weed seeds as may be in
the soil, and the steam and gases arising from the manure will tend to
put the soil in the finest possible condition for forwarding the growth
of the young plants. A thermometer should be placed in the soil of the
bed every day or two, to see if the temperature has fallen sufficiently
to admit of sowing the seeds. As soon as the temperature has fallen
to about 75°; or, if no thermometer is at hand, as soon as the top
sod is only perceptibly warm to the palm of the hand, the bed should
be sprinkled, and as soon as this has dried off a little, rake it up
thoroughly and sow the seed. The seed will produce finer and stockier
plants if sown in drills about six inches apart, which will admit light
and air to the roots of the plants, and will permit a weekly hoeing. In
planting seeds, the depth of their covering should be about five times
the diameter of the seed, and this covering should be firmly packed
around them after planting. The starting and planting of these beds
must be calculated, so as to have the plants ready to set out as soon
as the garden can be worked. In this vicinity (Philadelphia) the first
sowing of cauliflowers, lettuce, beets and early cabbage should be made
about February 15th, or even earlier, depending on the forwardness of
the season or of your own particular garden. The plants will then be
of a suitable size for transplanting by the time the early part of the
garden has been plowed. If the sashes are covered with old carpets or
straw on cold nights, it will be a great saving of the heating power
of the manure and will prevent the young plants from being chilled.
The young plants should be treated to fresh air whenever the outside
temperature is not too cold, that they may not become “drawn,” or
“spindle up” into long, slim stems. As planting-out time approaches,
the young plants should be left uncovered as frequently as is safe,
that they may become sufficiently hardy not to miss the covering when
removed to the open ground.

Tomatoes, peppers and egg plants and a second sowing of early cabbage
should be sown in the same manner about the middle of March. If a
few extra early plants are wanted, they can be transplanted into the
earliest beds when the cabbage and other plants have been set out in
the garden, and the sash again put on. If some sweet potatoes are
buried about two inches deep in the dirt of one of the cabbage frames,
and kept warm, they will produce a fine lot of sprouts, or, as they are
called, “sets,” which can be broken off and planted in the garden when
the weather has become sufficiently warm. If a number are wanted, or
there is danger of their growing too large, they can be taken off and
“heeled in” in another sash until planting time, and the potatoes put
back again, as they will produce two or three crops of the sets. Or a
hill of cucumbers can be planted in the centre of each sash as a second
crop, and by the time it would be warm enough to leave them uncovered,
these will have filled up the frame with bearing vines, gaining at
least a month on those planted in the open ground.

While the cabbage, cauliflower, beets and lettuce may be planted out as
soon as all danger of frost is over, the tomatoes, peppers, egg plants,
etc., should not be set out until the thermometer stands at over 60°
all night, or until the oak leaves are as large as a five-cent piece.
In a small hotbed it is best to have a partition between each sash and
the one next to it, so that such as are tender varieties may be kept
warm and the more hardy cabbage may have plenty of fresh air, for if
the latter should become “drawn,” all the advantages of an early start
will be lost and the plants may become entirely worthless.

Sowings of seeds for early plants may be made in the same manner as
above described for hotbeds, in cold frames, which are the same without
the artificial heat germinated by fermenting manure, depending solely
on the heat of the sun and the protection of the sash to forward the
plants. They can be planted about two weeks later than the dates given
for the respective vegetables in hotbeds, and the plants will be ready
for setting out about the same length of time later than those raised
with the artificial heat. These frames can also be used for wintering
over a few fall-sown cabbage plants, which are useful in a very early
season and can be kept full of parsley, lettuce, etc., making a
pleasant variety of greens for the table during the winter.

As soon as it is warm enough to dig them and bring them into fine
order, seed beds should be made in a sheltered spot of the garden, for
the sowings of late cabbage and celery, which will be spoken of in
detail under the special directions for growing these vegetables.


                                TOOLS.

Although not positively necessary, it is of great advantage to have a
variety of tools for thoroughly working the soil and to facilitate the
labor of planting and harvesting the crops, and exterminating weeds.
If, however, the garden is as well cultivated as it should be, there
will be no chance for weeds to start, as they will all be destroyed in
their earliest stages.

While there is a general assortment of tools on every farm suitable for
use in the garden, I will give a short list of some especially adapted
for use in the kitchen garden and the modes and purposes of using them.

First is the PLOW. For the first plowing in the spring, and
for the general plowing in the fall, I use a large two-horse plow,
which takes a generous slice and will put the manure down as may be
wished and return the enriched soil to the surface in the spring, again
turning in another coat of manure, if it is to be had in sufficient
quantities to do so. So long as the fresh manure does not come in
direct contact with the young plants, I do not think it is possible to
put in too much, at least in the first three years of the garden. In my
soil, which is rather heavy, I plow six to eight inches deep; in light
soil I would plow deeper, as the roots penetrate it much more rapidly.
For working among the strawberries and permanent rows of small fruits,
I use a light one-horse plow, with a swingle tree just wide enough to
permit the horse to move freely; this plow is also used in plowing out
the potatoes and in preparing the ground for a second crop. If the
share is kept sharp, as it always should be, it will be found very
useful in the cultivation of the berries, melons, etc., as with a good
plowman it will go deep or shallow, or will slip around some point to
be missed much easier than the cultivator.

When these plows are not in use I give the mould-board and all bright
parts a coat of thick whitewash; this keeps them from rusting, so that
plowing a single round leaves them bright and shining. A coat of this
on all bright tools, spades, hoes, etc., in the fall, will keep them in
the best order through the winter, so that no time will be lost getting
them into good working condition in the spring.

A good companion to the light plow is a one-horse HARROW, of
a V shape, with long, slender teeth. It is a splendid tool for making
a good, deep bed of fine earth for seed sowing or setting out small
plants. Where more land has been plowed than is needed for immediate
planting, I run over it with this implement when working the balance
of the garden, so keeping it clear of weeds and in fine condition for
planting. It is especially convenient to have the ground in this shape
for planting cabbage, celery, tomatoes, etc., as you can take advantage
of a good shower to set them out while the ground is thoroughly wet.
My plan is to commence planting when the rain begins, the fresh plants
having the full benefit of the shower.

The ROLLER and the Harrow generally go in succession, and a light
one-horse roller will be found very convenient, but the large farm
roller will do equally good work where one is at hand and there is room
for it to be used. A small hand roller, about three feet in width,
for rolling in small drilled seeds, such as beets, onions, turnips,
etc., and by which the dirt can be settled over a row of peas or corn
when only a few rows are planted at once, will many times repay the
labor of making it. A piece of six- or eight-inch drain pipe, with the
bell knocked off, an iron bar run through the centre for an axle, and
the whole inside filled with mortar or concrete and allowed to get
perfectly hard, will make as fine a hand roller as need be, or one
can very easily be made from a smooth section of a tree trunk. This
implement would probably be much more useful than the one-horse roller.
It always pays to roll ground every time it is plowed, and too much
stress cannot be laid on the value of firmly compacting the soil around
freshly sown seed.

The CULTIVATOR is the most important and most frequently used tool
in the garden, and should be of the best make obtainable. I consider
the IRON AGE or PLANET, JR., the best, they having a light iron frame
which is very strong without being clumsy; the spreading bars close
inward, so that they do not catch or interfere with the plants in
narrow rows, and admit of working rows not more than two feet apart,
so that the ground can be cropped to its full capacity. They have a
variety of adjustable and reversible teeth, including plow, shovel and
cutting teeth, which will throw the soil to or from the row, or leave
it loose and level; in light soil this cultivator will loosen and let
in the air seven or eight inches deep. These adjustable teeth are all
sharpened at each end so that they can be turned around, so saving the
number of times that they will need grinding, as both ends can be used
and one grinding suffice where it would take two in the ordinary style
of teeth. When worn out, the whole set can be taken off and new ones
purchased at a very moderate cost. This part of the implement should be
well watched and the teeth kept in good cutting condition, as it will
not only kill the weeds a great deal more thoroughly when sharp, but
will also be much lighter of draft.

Next to the cultivator comes the WHEEL HOE or hand cultivator. By
the use of this implement, roots and small growing vegetables, such
as onions, beets, parsnips, lettuce, radishes, parsley, etc., may be
planted and thoroughly worked in rows from six to twenty-four inches
apart; thus more than doubling the amount that can be raised by horse
cultivation. A good implement will not throw dirt over the small plants
as the larger cultivator does, so that the rows can be worked closely
enough to avoid having to be gone over with the hand hoe after the
thinning out has been done. In my experience, I have found that a man
can hoe more ground and do it twice as deep and well in one hour with
one of these implements than he could do in a day with the old style
hand hoe. There are numerous styles of wheel hoes on the market, but
the only good one that I have ever seen is “Lee’s Wheel Hoe,” which
is made in Philadelphia under the patent of the inventor, who is
himself a prominent trucker. It is strong, light and well built; it has
five sharp, finger-shaped teeth back of the wheel, which loosen and
pulverize the soil, and a broad hoe blade behind, which travels beneath
the surface, turning the soil over and cutting off under ground any
weeds which may be in its track. When the soil is in good order, it
leaves it as smooth and fine as would a steel rake. To obtain the best
results with this tool or with the cultivator, you should go through
each row three or four times, so as to pulverize and work over the
soil thoroughly. The hoe blades are of different widths, for working
rows of different widths, a set of three going with each implement.
These hoes can easily be sharpened by any blacksmith. Keep them well
sharpened, and it will be surprising to note how much less muscle it
takes to push them and how much better the work is done. I have tried
several different makes, as I work an acre or more each year with one
of these hoes and a “Fire-fly” hand plow, which is run before the wheel
hoe when the ground is very hard, and Lee’s is the only one that works
satisfactorily. When the ground is in the best condition a man can hoe
the acre in a single day, so that it will readily be seen what a labor
saver it is.

The FIRE-FLY HAND PLOW just spoken of is a very convenient tool for
making drills, and will plow out a furrow from one to four inches
deep, for sowing peas, corn, beans, etc., and coming back alongside of
the open furrow will cover them nicely, not taking one-quarter of the
time necessary to make the drill with a hoe and cover with a rake, as
it is ordinarily done. It is also very handy to strike out a furrow
in this way when planting strawberries, cabbages, tomatoes, etc.,
especially where two are employed on the same work, as one can strike
out the furrows, and drop a plant where each one is to stand, while the
other, following, sets the plant with one hand and with the other pulls
in and places the loose covering dirt, and finally tramps the soil
firmly round the new-set plants with his feet. These two last-mentioned
tools are very useful in the ordinary small garden; they enable the
work to be done much more quickly and very much more thoroughly than
is often the case, the spring spading being generally the only good
stirring the soil gets in the season.

A SEED DRILL is a very handy tool, but it is quite expensive. In the
kitchen garden there is seldom more than one or two rows across the
garden to be sown with any one kind of seed, and this can be done
almost in the time it would take to adjust the drill, although the
drill works a great deal more evenly than the seed can be sown by hand.
On a farm where root crops are raised for soiling, the drill will be
a measure of economy, even for a single season, and can readily be
used in the garden. The combined implements, with plowing and hoeing
attachments, are “a delusion and a snare;” if you want a tool that will
do good work, and will not get out of order or break, do not have it
“combined” with anything else.

Of HAND-HOES, STEEL RAKES, TROWELS, SPADES, SHOVELS, ETC., there should
be enough to furnish each man employed, as it is frequently desirable
to have all hands working on the same job. Of these, the hoes, spades
and trowels should have an intimate and frequent calling acquaintance
with the grind-stone. It is much easier to work with a _sharp_ hoe or
spade, and the work is much better when done.

There should be a good stout cotton LINE, long enough to reach across
the garden, and a reel to keep it on is a great convenience, as it
takes such a short time to wind it up that there is not the same
temptation to leave it out all night. A good cotton line, carefully
housed, will last for years, and is one of the most important
requisites in the garden. Neatness is one of the essentials of good
gardening, and I have never known a gardener successful who was “hit or
miss” in laying out his rows; every plant must be squarely in the row
to admit of close working with the cultivator. If it is necessary to
keep a few inches away from the row to avoid cutting the stragglers,
either the soil is not loosened around the plant as it should be, or it
has to be gone over with the hand hoe, which consumes time in a large
garden.


                         PLANTING THE GARDEN.

It is common in most gardens to plant blackberries, raspberries,
currants, etc., around the fences. This is not only a waste of half
the fruit, as it can only be borne on one side, but involves much
needless labor in keeping the plants trimmed and worked, and unless
hoed frequently the plot becomes a harbor for weeds. The only advantage
in so planting is the protection the fence affords in winter, as it
catches the flying leaves and weeds in the fall, and these with the
shade afforded by the fence and drifted snow make a natural protection
for the roots and canes. It is not the severity of the frost which
determines the hardiness of a plant, so much as its ability to
withstand freezing and thawing in rapid succession. For this reason I
would have the small fruits planted at the north side of the garden,
especially if it be the highest part, and if there is some kind of
wind-break or protection, as this will cause the snow to drift and
lie longer, making a natural covering, while the slope will drain the
surface water quickly away, so that it does not form hard ice around
the crowns.

If it were possible, I would prefer to have no fence around the
garden, as it makes it much easier to keep clean. A fence is always
a nuisance and waste of ground unless absolutely necessary; but if a
fence is needed, have one that will not only keep out stock, but also
the gardener’s most aggravating enemy, the poultry. A scratching hen
seems to have an instinct which tells her as soon as the seed has been
planted, and which are the hills containing the choicest varieties.

In plowing the ground in the early spring, I think it is best not
to plow more than is needed for the first planting, and to plow the
remainder somewhat later, when it has become more dry and friable, as
it will not then become packed and hard again by the heavy spring
rains. For the first planting the ground should be plowed and planted
as soon as it can be got in order; the hardier vegetables will even
stand a light frost, and while adapting their growth to the weather,
will be ready to take advantage of the first warm spring days. I shall
speak of the time of planting and sowing in the chapters devoted to the
separate treatment of the different vegetables.

The following simple test will be of use to the novice in determining
not only when to plow, but also when to cultivate and hoe the ground.
Take a portion of the soil in the hand and try to press it into a
ball; if it makes a ball and sticks to the hand it is too wet, while
if it crushes hard it is too dry. In both cases, if worked in this
condition, it will be left in a hard and lumpy state, that will take a
long time to bring into good order. To be in good working condition the
soil should crumble easily and finely in the hand, and should leave no
dirt adhering to the fingers. It will not only give the best results
when worked in this state, but it can also be done in half the time.
Sometimes we cannot wait until the ground is in the very best order,
as in a drought in summer, when it is needed for the second crop. In
such a case it must be brought into as fine condition as possible
by repeated harrowing and rolling; the latter is an operation too
frequently neglected in the ordinary garden; every farmer knows the
value of having the soil firmly compacted round the fresh-sown grain,
and it is of equal value in every variety of seed sown in the garden.
Where there is not room for the roller to be used after sowing a row,
I always have it pressed in by the broad sole of the gardener’s boot,
which nature usually provides shall be of generous size. It is even
more important that the soil should be firmly pressed around the roots
of newly-set plants, as if this is not done the first heavy rain uses
the roots as water courses, and deprived of contact with the soil, the
roots rot off and the plants are stunted or die.

Among the first things to be planted in the spring are the small
fruits, such as grapes, blackberries, raspberries, currants,
strawberries, etc. These should all be in the kitchen garden, and
with them the rhubarb and asparagus beds, where they can and will be
cultivated as well as the vegetables, the soil kept loose and free from
weeds, that they may devote their energies to making strong canes and
bearing fine fruit, instead of wasting their strength in a continuous
battle for life with grass and weeds, leaving them an easy prey to
insects and disease. Those who have never given them this thorough
cultivation will be surprised at the large crops and superior quality
of the fruit that can be raised under these favorable circumstances.
These fruits, when once planted, with the exception of strawberries,
last for many years if well manured, trimmed and cultivated. They
should all be at one side of the garden, where they will not be in
the way of working the garden with the large plow in the spring and
fall, but should have their own plowing with the small plow, two to
four inches in depth, spring and fall. In the fall plowing the furrows
should be turned toward the row, which will bank them up slightly and
afford additional protection through the winter. In the spring this
ridge can be worked down level again with the plow and cultivator, the
dirt from around the crowns being drawn away with an ordinary hand hoe.

In planting the rows in the spring, the width of the cultivator and
swingle tree must be taken into account. If the ground has been heavily
manured the vegetables can be planted as closely as will admit of
working, and allowing a good supply of light and air to the roots,
excepting melons, and other vines, which should have plenty of room
in which to spread and sun themselves. Thus, peas, beets, bush beans,
etc., can be sowed as closely as two and one-half feet apart, while
corn, pole beans, etc., which grow as high as the horse’s sides and the
cultivator handles, should have the rows four or four and one-half feet
apart, not only to allow of working but to admit of the sunshine and
air penetrating to the roots.




                             WHAT TO GROW.


                              ASPARAGUS.

This is the earliest vegetable to be ready for use in the spring,
excepting those that have been forwarded under glass. While it is quite
hardy and withstands much ill treatment, nothing will better repay
careful culture and generous feeding. One row across the kitchen garden
would make a liberal supply for an average family. The seed should be
sown where the row is to stand, and the young plants thinned out until
they stand one foot apart in the row. This should be done as soon as
they are three or four inches high and well started; if left longer it
will be a very troublesome job. These young plants should have every
encouragement of manure and cultivation, to make as strong a growth as
possible; the stronger and faster they grow the better will be the size
and quality of the shoots when old enough to cut. No shoots should be
cut until the third spring after sowing, and then should not be cut too
long the first season. The fourth and succeeding seasons it may be cut
from the time the first shoots appear until the first peas and lettuce
are ready to take its place on the table. Then it should be well worked
and allowed to attain its full growth, that strength may be stored
in the crowns to furnish the shoots for the next season’s cutting.
As soon as the tops begin to yellow, and the berries to ripen in the
fall, it should be mowed off close to the ground and the tops burnt,
taking care that all the seeds are consumed; if left on the plants
all winter the seed becomes scattered, and, owing to its capacity for
sending up shoots, it is a very difficult weed to exterminate. If
you do not wish the labor of sowing the seed and tending the young
plants, a year can be gained by purchasing the plants. The one-year
old plants are preferable unless the older ones have been transplanted
each year, as they are gross feeders, and become stunted if allowed to
crowd each other while young. To produce the large, fat shoots, it is
necessary that the seed shall have been saved from the strongest shoots
obtainable, and the plants fed constantly. The best way is to cover the
crowns, after the ground is frozen in the fall, with as much manure as
can be spared, and work it down to the roots in the spring as soon as
it can be forked in; or, if there are several rows, the manure could
be placed on them thickly and the soil ridged over it for the winter
by throwing up a couple of shallow furrows with the plow; this to be
worked down with a sharp harrow in the spring. As soon as it is dry
enough in the spring, the soil and manure of the bed should be lightly
forked over with a manure fork and the surface raked fine; the reason
for using the stable fork is that the tines are slightly curved, and
if the handle is held in a nearly horizontal position the bed can be
dug down to the roots, and the fork will slide right over the tops of
the crowns without injuring them. Where more than one row is desired
they should be planted about three feet apart, to admit of cultivation
and free access to the beds for cutting. An advantage in sowing the
seed is that the crowns are naturally established at a proper depth. In
planting the crowns obtained from the nursery-man they should be set
at a depth of three or four inches at the most; not one foot under the
surface, as is the common practice of truckers. Market gardeners cut
the shoots as soon as the tips appear above the surface, so that their
shoots are blanched for their whole length; but they do this at the
expense of the table quality, as only the tips are edible in this way,
and even these taste very much like old hay to any one who has been
accustomed to the richness and delicate flavor of shoots cut at the
surface when they are from three to four inches in height; this method
has also the advantage of not destroying the young shoots just coming
up, as the stalks are only cut an inch or so underground, and the knife
only reaches the one intended to be cut. If the appearance of the
blanched asparagus is desired, it can be much better obtained (that is,
with less sacrifice of quality) by placing four or five inches of hay,
straw or other litter over the crowns, which can be pushed away from
the stalk when cutting and easily replaced. There is another strong
reason for not following the deep planting, as usually practiced, and
that is, in having your crowns so much nearer the surface they feel the
warming and growing influence of the sun sooner in the season, and you
are able to have your asparagus for cutting a full week earlier than
your neighbor who plants deep.


                        VARIETIES OF ASPARAGUS.

As mentioned above, this succulent is capable of great improvement by
careful selection of seed from the best stalks. The old Purple Top
variety is no longer grown, its place having been taken by the larger
shoots and better quality of the variety known as Conover’s Colossal.
This latter, however, has been propagated so extensively and with so
little care that it is now almost impossible to obtain seed or plants
that will produce the splendid shoots of the original stock. Of the new
varieties Barr’s Mammoth seems to be the most promising, and as grown
in some fields in the vicinity of Philadelphia produces shoots which
will average nearly an inch in diameter.


                                BEANS.

The first planting of snaps or dwarf bush beans can be made when the
first planting of peas and beets are sown, but will not do as well
nor produce beans of as fine quality as those planted about two weeks
later, when the weather has become warmer and more settled. These yield
very abundantly, and a drill fifty feet long will produce as many as
can be used in a large family. While planting in a drill, for the sake
of convenience and quickness in planting, the seed should be dropped
in hills about ten inches apart and five seeds to a hill. If the beans
are kept picked closely, the plants will continue longer in bearing,
and they may be had throughout the season if successive plantings are
made, though the pole snaps are to be preferred through the summer and
fall, for their greater bearing qualities and the ease of gathering
them. In both the bush and pole snaps, care should be taken to secure
varieties that are entirely stringless, as they are not only much
easier to prepare for use, but are much more tender. The different
“Wax” varieties are very fine, but the bush beans of this class have
not done well in this locality for the last three seasons, the pods
being covered with a species of black spot or rot that spoils fully
two-thirds of them.[1]

The pole beans should not be planted until the ground is thoroughly
warmed in the spring, or until the thermometer stands over 60° all
night. It is quite common to plant these with poles 8 to 9 feet in
height. I think this is a mistake, as no ordinary picker can reach
higher than about six feet to advantage, and as the vines grow to the
tops of the poles before commencing to fruit, both beans and time are
lost. The poles should be set in rows four and one-half feet apart and
two and one-half to three feet apart in the rows. Two hundred poles
of Limas will furnish an ample supply throughout the season, and will
ripen a bushel of dried beans for winter use as well. Twenty-five
poles will furnish an ample supply of snaps, though we allowed one
row across the garden in the diagram given, the surplus being allowed
to ripen for winter use. Where the saving of room is an object and
the ground has been well manured, these pole snaps can be planted in
the hills of corn, and allowed to use the stalks as poles; they will
produce a good crop, but not nearly so many, nor are they as easy
to pick as when grown on the poles. For this purpose they should be
planted with some strong growing variety of corn, such as Stowell’s
Evergreen or other late variety.

The white soup bean, that is dried for winter use in various ways,
including the famous “Boston Baked Beans,” is generally grown by
dropping one or two hills between each hill of corn, and instead of
picking them, the whole plant is pulled up in the fall, and the beans
thrashed out with a flail when dry. For Limas and pole snaps, the
poles should be set by the aid of the garden line, and where any pole
is bowed or crooked it should be planted so as to bring it in line
with the row, lengthwise, as nearly as possible, that they may present
an orderly appearance. In setting the poles, make a hole from one to
two feet deep by driving the sharp end of a crowbar into the ground,
place the butt end of the pole in this hole and ram it firmly in its
place; then put one or two shovelfuls of compost around the base of the
pole, and with a sharp steel rake make a hill of fine dirt over the
compost. Five or six beans should be planted to each hill, but if all
grow should be thinned out to two or three. If the young plants do not
climb the poles readily at the first start, they should be trained
up and tied till they begin to take hold for themselves. Be careful,
in planting Lima beans, to push them into the soil with the eye down,
for, as the first leaves are quite large and heavy, it assists them
materially in breaking through the soil to plant them in this
manner.[2]

The Limas may be brought into bearing somewhat earlier in the season by
placing pieces of sod, cut four inches square and about three inches
thick, grass side down, in the hotbed, and planting four or five beans
in each piece; if this is done in the latter part of March they will be
of good size by the time it is warm enough to plant them out, which is
done by planting the piece of sod at the base of the pole, in hills, as
prepared for the seed. If the end of the vine is pinched off when it is
about four or five feet up the pole, it will assist the lateral shoots
in blooming early, and consequently produce beans earlier, though, like
all forcing methods, it will, to some extent, lessen the vigor of the
vine, and most likely, to some extent, the amount of the crop.

BUSH BEANS--_Golden Wax_.--This is one of the best bush beans; it
matures early; the pods are of very handsome appearance, brittle and
entirely stringless; it is a good bearer and makes an excellent shelled
bean for winter use.

_Best of All Dwarf Bean._--This is a green-podded bean, and is
probably the best for the first planting, as it is not only very early
but also very productive; the pods are six inches long, entirely
stringless, very fleshy and rich flavored.

_Champion Bush Bean._--This is a strong grower, attaining about
fifteen to eighteen inches in height, and an immense cropper. The beans
can be used as string beans in the green state, but its chief quality
lies in the superiority of the beans when dried, and the large crops
which it produces when grown for winter use.

  [Illustration: BEST OF ALL DWARF BEAN.]

  [Illustration: CHAMPION BUSH BEAN.]

POLE BEANS, SNAP VARIETIES--_Golden Wax Flageolet_.--This
bean is of recent introduction, and is worthy of all the praise that
has been bestowed upon it; it is a tremendous bearer, and is almost as
early as the dwarf wax varieties, the pods are much larger, being seven
to eight inches long, round and very fleshy; they are entirely free
from strings and of the finest quality. Unlike the other pole beans, it
begins to produce beans at the bottom of the pole as soon as it starts
to climb; and if these are used as they mature, it will continue in
bearing the entire season.[3]

_White Creaseback, or Best of All._--These for early and the
_Lazy Wife’s_ for late are the best of the green-podded pole
beans. The pods are about six inches in length, thick fleshed, and
of very fine quality. The Creaseback is very early and matures its
crop in a short time, thus making it a very profitable variety for
market. Both varieties are very productive, entirely stringless, and of
superior flavor.

  [Illustration: CREASE BACK POLE BEAN.

  LAZY WIFE’S POLE BEAN.]

LIMAS--_Extra Early Lima_.--This variety matures very nearly as early
as the Small Lima, while the beans are more nearly the size of the late
Lima; the quality is very fine and the quantity large, as it bears the
pods in clusters of four, with four to six beans in a pod.

_Dreer’s Improved Lima._--This variety is early and very
productive if measured in the green state; the pods are smaller than
in the ordinary Lima, but the beans are very plump, and are so close
together in the pods as to crowd against each other. As a green bean it
is very early, and shells out more quarts to the basket of pods than
the larger varieties; but the quality is not as fine, and in the dry
state the beans shrivel up till they are only about the size of dry
bush beans, and are not nearly so good as the other varieties.

_King of the Garden._--This is a new variety, in which the green
beans are of unusual size and very fine quality. I have seen half an
acre planted with this variety which I am sure had at that time more
than twice the quantity of beans that could be grown on the same ground
of the ordinary kinds; vines were loaded with clusters of pods seven
to eight inches in length, and it was no rarity to see them with five
very large beans in a pod. From its great productiveness and the fine
quality of the beans, it deserves the first place among the Limas.


                                BEETS.

Seed of these should be sown when the first planting is done in the
spring. They may be had still earlier by planting the seed in a hotbed
while the ground is still frozen, and transplanting them to the garden
a week or so after the cabbage and lettuce have been planted out. Care
must be taken in transplanting the young beets, that the tap-root does
not get broken, or it will make a number of fibrous roots instead of
the large, smooth globe desired for the table. When the seed is well
up, the plants should be thinned out until they stand six or ten inches
apart, as the size of the variety demands. A second sowing should be
made about June 1st, and the main sowing about the 15th of July or 1st
of August, to raise roots for winter use. These frequent sowings are
necessary to have the beets of fine quality; as the roots get older
and larger they become “woody,” or hard and fibrous, and exceedingly
tasteless. Where the season is short, or there are prospects of a dry
fall, the second sowing should be large enough to produce the winter
crop, as the later one may fail to mature in time. The beets may be
stored and the flavor retained by the method described for pitting
turnips, and will keep in good order until spring.

The Bassano and other light beets are of quick growth and are tender
and palatable while young, but are of coarse texture and not nearly
so fine in appearance when cooked as the blood beets. The blood
beets retain their deep, rich color, while all the light-leaved or
light-stemmed varieties are colorless, or nearly so, when cooked. It
certainly adds to the attractiveness of a dish for the vegetable to
have a handsome appearance when cooked.

The seed should be sown in drills, from twelve to eighteen inches
apart, if to be worked with the wheel hoe; if for horse culture, two
and a half to three feet will have to be allowed between the rows. The
ground should be raked clear of clods and made as fine as possible. A
drill is made by drawing the rake or hoe handle along the line. The
drill should be about an inch in depth and the seed should be dropped
about two inches apart, thinning out to six or eight inches apart when
well started, and if it is desired, the thinnings can be transplanted
to another row. If no small roller is at hand, the drill can be covered
and packed by the same operation, by removing the line and shuffling
along the row with the feet placed in a V, the forepart of the foot
drawing in the fine soil while the heels at the point cover and press
the dirt down upon the row; the foot, of course, is only moved a few
inches at a time, but with a little practice the rows can be covered in
this manner quite rapidly.


                          VARIETIES OF BEETS.

ECLIPSE.--This is a very early beet, of quick growth and
very fine quality. As the leaves of this variety are small and the
stems short, they can be grown quite closely together. The roots are
perfectly smooth, regular, globe shape, blood-red skin and flesh, fine
grained and very sweet when cooked.

EDMAND’S EARLY TURNIP.--This variety is turnip-shaped, that
is, tapering more gradually below the shoulder than the Eclipse; the
foliage is short and stocky, enabling a heavy crop to be grown, as they
can be grown as closely as six inches apart; the flesh, of a deep blood
red, is of the finest quality.

  [Illustration: EDMAND’S EARLY TURNIP BEET.]

  [Illustration: BURPEE’S IMPROVED BLOOD TURNIP BEET.]

BURPEE’S IMPROVED BLOOD TURNIP.--This beet attains quite a
large size and is very smooth and regular in appearance; the flesh is
deep blood red and of fine quality, whether eaten in summer or stored
for winter use; it is one of the best varieties for the latter purpose,
and should be sown as described for the winter crop.


                               CABBAGES.

Of this vegetable two distinct crops are raised in every garden, while
many gardeners, by successive sowings and the use of several varieties,
have them fit for use constantly from early spring until fall, and
throughout the entire winter by storage. In the ordinary garden the
same result may be obtained by planting larger quantities of the early
and summer varieties, and cutting them as wanted for use, as most of
them will stand the whole summer without bursting or going to seed, and
by early fall some of the winter cabbage will be large enough for use.

EARLY OR SUMMER CABBAGES.--The seed for these should be sown
in a hotbed from the 1st to the 15th of February. As soon as the plants
are large enough to set out they should be given plenty of air, and
should be gradually hardened off until they are able to stand the cool
nights without protection; but they should not be allowed to freeze.
Treated in this way they will be ready for planting out as soon as the
ground can be worked. In making this sowing I would have it of two
kinds--some of a small, hard-heading, early variety, and about twice
as many of a larger-heading summer kind. These latter are described as
second early in the seed catalogues.

These early cabbages need very little care except to have frequent and
thorough cultivation, as they are comparatively free from insect pests
as long as they make a healthy growth. If attacked by the black fly or
green worm, they should be dusted with land plaster or slug shot early
in the morning, while the dew is still on them. The soil around these
and all other crops that depend on quick growth for their superior
qualities, must not only be cultivated, to kill the weeds, but must
be kept loose and well stirred, to admit the air to the roots of the
plants; it must not be allowed to lie heavy and packed after dashing
rains, but should be stirred up as soon as dry enough. The rows may be
as close as can be worked with the cultivator, say about three feet,
and the plants about one and a half feet apart in the row, or even
closer, if the variety grown makes but small heads.

LATE OR WINTER CABBAGE.--As soon as the ground becomes warm
in the spring, or early in May, a seed bed should be made and sown
with the late varieties of cabbage and celery, or the seed may be sown
in drills in the garden; the seed being sown in very thinly, so as to
produce plants standing about half an inch apart in the row. Where
it can be done, it is best to sow the seed in a special bed or cold
frame, where they can be watered and nursed to a good size by the time
they are wanted for planting. The Flat Dutch and Drumhead types are
the best for this planting, though many prefer the Savoys, claiming
a superior delicacy of flavor, on account of their having more leaf
surface to the number of ribs or veins; they are not, however, nearly
such sure headers, nor are they as good keepers when buried.

It is important to get the seed sown early, that the plants may be had
of good size by the middle of June, though they will make a partial
crop if planted as late as the middle of August. As these varieties
make larger heads than the summer cabbages, they cannot be planted so
closely; the rows should be 3 to 3½ feet apart, and the plants 2 to 2½
feet apart in the rows. These can be planted and grown between the rows
of early peas, corn or potatoes; but I would prefer to wait until the
first crop of corn be cleared off the ground, as it can then be brought
into much better condition. It adds greatly to the labor of harvesting
the first crop when the ground is so closely planted, and the soil is
apt to become hard and packed before it can be cultivated again.

When possible, the young cabbage plants should be set out directly
before or after a good rain, but if there is no prospect of rain, they
should be planted in the evening and a tincupful of water should be
poured in each hole before the plant is set in; then draw the dry earth
up around the stem and pack firmly around the plant; this will enable
them to withstand at least a week of dry weather. If the drought should
continue longer, or they do not come up fresh in the morning after a
flagging day, they must be watered in the cool of the evening, when
the plant will have the benefit of the water all night. It is waste
of time to water them while the hot sun is shining, unless they can be
shaded with papers, old pans, etc.

As soon as they become well established, the soil around them must be
carefully loosened and cultivation begun. To obtain the best results
they must be cultivated frequently and deeply. It is a common sight in
some gardens to see the cabbage with stems two feet high and a small
bunch of wormy leaves at the top; a closer examination will show that
the soil is hard and trampled, and that the plants have been left to
grow as best they may, while in the well-cultivated garden the stems
are short and the heads are large and solid.

The young plants of late cabbages are generally infested, while in the
seed bed, with a small black fly, which greatly checks their growth,
and sometimes entirely destroys them. These can be gotten rid of, or
better, entirely avoided, by the application of dry road dust, soot,
slug shot, or land plaster, dusted on the young leaves early in the
morning, while the dew is still on them; this should be repeated every
two or three mornings until the fly is exterminated and the plants have
grown to good size. When the plants have been set out and are nearly
ready to head, the green cabbage worm makes its appearance, and if fine
marketable heads are desired this pest must be destroyed. Many remedies
for this are given, most of which are ineffectual. It is best to
sprinkle well with tar water or alum water, taking care to get it well
down into the centre of the loose leaves, using an ordinary watering
pot for the purpose; if a garden syringe is at hand, it can be thrown
into the plant much better than by sprinkling. To make the tar water,
the tar is put in a barrel of water and well stirred; then, when it
has been allowed to settle, the water from the top is dipped off and
used. It should be strong enough to have quite a decided taste. The
alum maybe dissolved in the watering pot, about one tablespoonful to
the gallon, and stirred till dissolved. See that the solution gets well
into the centre of the loose leaves just below the head, as this is the
favorite place of attack by the worms.

The cabbage is quite hardy and will stand considerable frost in the
fall without damage, being rather improved in quality by it. By the
third week in November they should be put in pits or the vegetable
cellar; or, where these conveniences are not at hand, they should be
pulled up, root and all, the outside leaves wrapped closely around the
head and stood side by side, on their heads, on a well-drained piece
of ground; they should be placed in a long row two or three heads
wide, and where a good many are to be buried or gotten out at once,
two additional rows may be placed on top of these, as shown in the
illustration.

  [Illustration: FIG. 1.

  FIG. 2.

   Illustrations showing the manner of storing cabbage for winter
   use. Figure 1 showing three rows of heads and Figure 2, five
   rows. C. Heads of cabbage. S. Soil banked over the heads. D.
   Drainage ditches to carry off the water.]

Dry soil is then thrown on these heads to the thickness of five or
six inches and the roots left sticking out of the top; this covering
should be firmly packed, to prevent the entrance of water, and a small
gutter should be dug round the heap to carry it off. If, after the
cold weather has set in and the ground is slightly frozen, the heap is
covered with three to four inches of corn fodder or litter, it will
prevent the covering from freezing so hard, and will greatly lessen
the work of getting out the heads when wanted for use. When heads are
wanted, one end of the bank is opened and as many taken out as are
desired; the open end is then carefully covered over with soil. Too
many should not be taken out at once, as they retain their flavor
better when buried in this manner than when kept where they are exposed
to the open air. If it is desired to save some of the best heads for
seed, the roots of the plant must be buried as well as the top; they
can then be replanted early in the spring and a cross cut made in the
top of the head to assist the flower stalks in bursting through, as the
heads are sometimes so tight that they will rot before bursting.

  [Illustration: EXTRA EARLY EXPRESS CABBAGE.]

  [Illustration: EARLY JERSEY WAKEFIELD CABBAGE.]

EARLY VARIETIES--_Extra Early Etampes._--This cabbage is the earliest
heading variety that I have ever grown. The heads are small but round
and very solid, and it is ready for use nearly two weeks ahead of the
other early varieties.[4]

_Early Jersey Wakefield._--This has long been the chief favorite
for the general crop of early cabbage, and is deservedly popular, as it
is sure to head when the seed is good; the heads are of good size and
shape, and the quality is fine.

_Early Summer._--This succeeds the Wakefield, and has heads about
twice the size of the latter; they are round, very solid and slightly
flattened on top; it has few outside leaves and can be planted closely;
this variety matures about two weeks later than the Wakefield, and a
month after the Etampes.[5]


                      VARIETIES OF LATE CABBAGES.

At the head of these I would place BURPEE’S SUREHEAD, which
has done so well for me since I began planting it, never failing
a single season, that I now plant my whole crop of it, instead of
planting two or three kinds as formerly, to guard against poor seed
or a bad season. It is an improved type of the Premium Flat Dutch, to
which it is superior in the evenness and regularity of its heads and
the “sureness” of every plant to form a fine head. With me the heads
average larger than the Flat Dutch, are rather more rounding in shape
and are of the finest quality.

  [Illustration: EARLY SUMMER CABBAGE.]

  [Illustration: BURPEE’S SUREHEAD CABBAGE.]

  [Illustration: BURPEE’S SHORT-STEM DRUMHEAD CABBAGE.]

SHORT-STEM DRUMHEAD.--This variety produces on extra short
stems, only a few inches in height, very large solid heads, often
twenty-five pounds in weight. It is from this kind that the very
large heads seen at the county fairs in the fall are grown, and where
the ground is heavily manured and well cultivated enormous crops of
this variety can be grown; it is of fine quality, very solid and an
excellent keeper.

  [Illustration: The Vandergaw Cabbage

  The Best Second Early and Summer Cabbage.

  Equally as Good For Winter.

  COPYRIGHTED 1887.

  BY W. ATLEE BURPEE & CO PHILADA]

DANISH BALL HEAD.--This variety has only been recently introduced,
but bids fair to take a leading place as a winter variety; the heads
are quite round and very solid; they are of medium size and very
handsome appearance, which make it a good market variety, while the
quality fully equals its good looks.


                             CAULIFLOWER.

The culture of this vegetable is the same as that for cabbage, in
most respects, but it is not a certain crop in our changeable climate
and hot, dry summers. It likes plenty of moisture, and if placed in a
rather wet location or in a bed where it can be frequently watered, it
will be much more certain to produce fine heads. Its superior quality
and the high price that good heads command make it a most desirable
crop to grow wherever it will do well. I have always found the
short-stemmed, extra early varieties the best ones to grow, and as in
the ordinary season but about half of them produce heads under ordinary
garden culture, the rest of them maturing throughout the summer and
fall, it is almost a continuous crop. The seed should be sown as early
as possible, in the hotbed, and great care should be taken that the
plants do not become either stunted or drawn, as none but the strong,
healthy plants will produce good heads. It will greatly improve the
appearance of the heads if some of the broad outside leaves are broken
half through the stems and the tops bent over the heads while forming.
This will blanch and keep them of that pure whiteness so attractive in
this vegetable as grown by the market gardeners. The heads should be
cut for use or sale as soon as they have reached their full size and
before the buds begin to uncurl, as this spoils both the appearance and
quality of this, the finest and most delicately flavored of the cabbage
family.


EXTRA EARLY DWARF ERFURT.--This is the best strain for general
use; there are usually two or more grades of this offered in seed
catalogues, but the best should always be purchased, even if you can
only buy a single packet; by taking extra care of it you can make every
seed count. This variety is quite early, has short stems, and makes
good-sized heads of the best quality.

EARLY SNOWBALL.--This variety is quite early and makes fine
large heads, of handsome appearance.

BURPEE’S BEST EARLY.--I have only grown this one season, but
found it all that it was represented in earliness and good heading
quality. Owing to a drouth early in the spring, the heads were not of
large size; the quality was fine, and I think it bids fair to be one of
the leading varieties.


These are ordinarily little used as table vegetables, but will be found
very palatable as an ingredient of soups and stews. They are very
easily grown, the seed being planted in drills and the plants thinned
to six or eight inches apart. The seed should be sown in April or May,
and they will be ready for use early in the summer. For winter use they
should be stored in the manner described for beets and turnips; they
will retain their quality throughout the winter, and form a pleasant
variety in the winter supply of vegetables. The rich yellow and
red-fleshed varieties are the most popular, and retaining their bright
colors when cooked, lend an attractive appearance to the dish of which
they form a part.

DANVERS HALF-LONG ORANGE.--This is claimed to have the greatest bulk
with the shortest length of root, and is a remarkably heavy cropper.
The root is of a rich, dark orange color, and grows very smooth and
succeeds in all soils. It is quite a favorite market sort.

SHORT HORN.--The flesh of this variety is very fine grained,
of deep orange color and superior quality. The roots do not penetrate
deeply, and the top is small, which allows of their being planted quite
closely.


EARLY VERY SHORT HORN, OR GOLDEN BALL.--The earliest variety;
the roots are round, turnip shaped, of small size, deep color, and the
quality is of the best.

OX HEART.--This variety is of large size, the roots being
seven to eight inches in length and three to four inches in diameter at
the top; it tapers gradually down to one and one-half to two inches at
the bottom, making very little waste in preparing it for the table. It
is of fine quality, while its size will render any surplus valuable for
feeding to the stock.

RED SAINT VALLERY.--This is a large late variety and makes a
good kind to raise for winter use; the roots grow ten to twelve inches
in length and measure two to two and one-half inches in diameter at the
top, tapering gradually to a point at the base. It should have deep
cultivation to produce the finest roots. The color is a deep orange red
and the quality is very fine.

These are universal favorites, and too frequently are not grown by the
kitchen gardener, who labors under the idea that they must have a sandy
soil in some particularly favored section, and that they require great
skill to grow them. If a variety suited to your soil is planted and
given the same amount of attention and careful cultivation as the rest
of the garden receives, melons may be had in abundance from the first
of August till frost comes in the fall, though when the first cool
nights come they lose their fine flavor. If the garden has a southern
slope, that will be the place for the melons and other warmth-loving
vegetables; but they will do almost as well in the level field. The
rows of hills should be five feet apart and the hills at least four
feet apart in the row, to allow the vines plenty of room to run. It is
a good plan to make the hills break joint, as they will then cover
the ground to better advantage. When the line is set, a hole should be
scraped with the hoe or shovel where the hill is to stand; this should
be six inches deep and about twelve inches in diameter. Compost is
then shoveled in, two rows being done at once; two or three shovelsful
are put in each hill. The dirt thrown out in making the hole is then
carefully made into a hill over the compost by using a sharp steel
rake, care being taken to remove all stones and hard lumps of dirt. The
seed is then scattered on the top of the hill, generally from twenty
to thirty seeds being planted in each hill, that there may be an ample
supply for the insects and yet leave a good stand. They should be
thinned out gradually, extra ones being left in until they are at least
a foot in length, as the insect pests are both numerous and destructive.

The hills should not be made until it is time to plant the seed, or
they will get packed and too hard for the young roots to penetrate.
When the seed has been planted on the hill it should be covered with
about half an inch of fine soil, sifted and crumbled on with the
fingers, and the whole top patted down with the palm of the hand. The
seed should be planted as soon as the ground is thoroughly warm in
the spring and when the temperature does not fall below sixty degrees
at night. The melons will commence ripening about August 1st, and two
rows across the garden should yield from one half-bushel to one bushel
daily if the variety planted is of the small Netted Gem or Jenny Lind
type. These small, round melons, of the size of a croquet ball, are
very prolific, and if carefully grown, the quality is very fine. Some
prefer the larger melons, which fill the basket more quickly, but in
my experience the small ones have been so much more prolific that the
yield has been almost double in bulk on the same amount of ground. The
melon rows should be gone over early every morning while ripening, as
they should not be allowed to become yellow on the vines. The quality
deteriorates very rapidly when allowed to ripen in the hot sun, so
that they should be picked while still green. The right stage for
picking can readily be told by examining the point where the stem joins
the melon; as soon as the stem begins to crack away from the melon
slightly, or when the little drops of red juice form round the base of
the stem, it is time to pick the melon. When picked, they should be put
in a cool cellar or spring house until wanted for the table.

Seed may be saved from the largest and finest-flavored melons; but if
your garden is on heavy soil, or if two or three varieties are grown
near together, it is best to procure fresh seed from some melon-growing
district every year.

The ground between the hills should be cultivated frequently, as
long as it can be done without interfering with the vine; the soil
in the hills should be kept loose and drawn up around the vines with
the hoe. When the vines have grown too long to allow the passage of
the cultivator, the patch can be kept clean by pulling out the large
weeds by hand, which can be done very quickly after a good rain. The
dense shade caused by the luxuriant vines will cause the small and
low-growing weeds to rot off. While the vines are still small, it will
be necessary to dust them every few mornings with road dust, soot,
plaster or slug shot, to destroy the flies and striped bugs that infest
them. When healthy young vines suddenly wilt and droop in the hot sun
without apparent cause, dig around the root of the plant with the
fingers or a stick until the grub is found which has cut the plant off
underground. He should be searched for and “made an example of” as soon
as the first vine is discovered to be flagging, or he will proceed to
eat the whole hill.

BURPEE’S NETTED GEM.--The finest as well as the earliest of
all the small-fruited varieties that I have tried, and where a variety
of melons is not particularly desired, it will furnish a generous
supply of fine-flavored fruit from the first ripening until killed
by frost. It is a very good keeper, retaining its good quality for
nearly a week after picking, if kept in a cool cellar. This is often
a valuable characteristic in the latter part of summer, as several
warm days furnish two or three baskets in the cellar, which keep up
the supply if the warm spell is followed by cool or cloudy days, when
the melons on the vines do not ripen readily. This variety is thickly
netted, the meat is thick and solid, and they run as even in shape and
symmetry as a set of croquet balls, which they also resemble in point
of size.

EMERALD GEM.--This variety has the small size and prolific
bearing qualities, with the handsome salmon-colored flesh, that
originated in the Surprise Melon some years ago. Too much cannot be
said of the _quality_ of this melon, as I do not think there is
another variety that approaches it in flavor. The vines are strong and
healthy in growth and well set with melons near the hills, and the
fruit is early in ripening. The melon has a thin, green rind and very
small seed cavity, almost the entire body of the fruit consisting of
the rich and luscious meat.

MONTREAL GREEN NUTMEG.--A handsome variety, in which large
size, regular shape and fine appearance are combined with thick
flesh of the finest flavor. In shape they are nearly round, slightly
flattened at the ends, very deeply ribbed and heavily netted. These
melons have been grown to over thirty pounds in weight, and will
average ten to twelve pounds in ordinary culture.

While one of the most troublesome vegetables to bring to perfection
in the ordinary garden, this is one of the most desirable, as well as
one of the most profitable, when well grown. The Michigan celery that
is being shipped to our eastern cities in such large quantities does
not seem to have lowered the price materially, but has crowded all the
inferior and less finely-grown plants out of the markets, and the high
express charges still guarantee a good profit to the near-by grower.
When the ground has become fairly warm in the spring, a bed should be
made in some shady corner for the seed; if such situation is not to
be had, the seed can be sown in a spent hotbed, cold frame or other
convenient place, and can be artificially shaded with fresh brush or
lath shades through the hottest part of the day. Celery is naturally a
swamp plant, and to make a rapid growth should have the ground as rich
as possible, and also as much water as possible, without making the
ground heavy and sour. The soil should not be allowed to become dry or
baked, and the weeds should be pulled out as soon as they appear. This
bed, and, indeed, all other seed beds, should be made very rich with
well-rotted manure; not with horse-stable manure or phosphate, as both
of them are dry and heating, and in dry weather would stunt or entirely
burn up the young plants. The seed should be sown in drills about six
inches apart, to admit of working the soil with a narrow hoe, as the
continued watering will harden the surface of the bed and check the
growth of the young plants. When the plants are well up they should
be thinned out so as to stand an inch apart in the drills, and if the
plants are ready some little time before they are wanted for setting
out, they can be made more stocky and stronger by shearing off about
half of the tops.

When ready to set out, I run a double furrow where the row is to
be--that is, the plow is run both ways in the same furrow, casting up a
ridge of dirt on either side of a shallow trench; then in the bottom of
this trench fine compost or well-rotted manure is placed to the depth
of one to two inches, and some of the fine soil from the sides is drawn
down over the manure with a fine rake until the manure is covered
about three inches. This will still leave a depth of about two inches
below the surface, which will serve to draw and retain the rain water,
or, in a dry time, can be flooded with a hydrant hose or irrigating
ditch. Where the ground has been heavily enriched or the celery is
planted as the first crop--that is, when no early vegetable precedes it
on the same ground--no manure is used in the trench or furrow, which is
plowed out in the same way, the additional depth assisting in the labor
of earthing up for blanching. To obtain fine quality and appearance
the plant should be pushed to as rapid a growth as possible from the
time the seed is sown until the stalks are ready for use; if allowed to
become stunted, the stalks will be knotty in appearance and bitter in
taste.

For my own use and marketing I usually sow seed of two or three
varieties, so that if one kind fails for any reason, I may still have
a crop sufficient for the table from the other varieties, while if it
is all good I have no difficulty in disposing of the surplus; this is
the more easily done, as it occupies ground that has been cleared of
early peas, corn, etc. Another point in not confining your planting to
the one variety is that the handsome “Self-blanching” varieties are not
good keepers, and as the older kinds take a long time to whiten, and a
good deal of cold weather to develop the fine flavor, they are about
ready for use when the early kinds are gone.

While celery is raised as a second crop and has always been considered
to require frost to develop the fine nutty flavor, at least one row in
the garden should be planted with a “Self-blanching” variety as early
in the spring as the plants can be procured. For this it is a good
plan to sow two or three drills of celery in the hotbed at the same
time with tomatoes, peppers, etc., that they may be ready for planting
out early in the spring. These will grow quickly before the very hot
weather sets in, and in a favorable season will be ready for use by the
latter part of August; if kept earthed up they will be of as handsome
appearance and as crisp and fine flavored as are the older varieties in
December.

For the main crop the young plants should be ready to set out by the
1st of July, though in a favorable locality they can be planted as late
as the middle of August, as they spend the summer largely in making
roots and do not grow much until the cool weather. As soon as the
plants attain eight to ten inches in height, or, rather, _length of
leaf stalk_ as they lie spread out, the earthing up should begin on
all kinds of celery, although the seed catalogues will tell you that it
is unnecessary in self-bleaching kinds. These latter may be bleached
easily by tying the stalks together with straw or soft twine, but the
earthing-up process is much more satisfactory both to produce a compact
bunch of stalks and an even whiteness in color; otherwise, the outside
stalks will remain green.

My plan in earthing for the first time, or “handling,” as it is called,
is to have the dirt loose and fine on each side of the row, then to
stand astride the row, gather all the leaves up and hold them closely
in the left hand, and with a short-handled hoe draw the loose dirt in
and pack it firmly around the stalks, leaving about two inches of the
tips stick out at the top. It is important to hold the stalks closely,
that the dirt may not sift down among the stalks, which would either
rot the heart or cause the inner stalks to become twisted and crooked.
The second and succeeding bankings are done by a boy standing over the
row, clasping the stems in his hand closely, while a man on each side
banks up the loose dirt with a shovel; as they raise the bank the boy
slides his hand further up the stalks, until, as before, all but two
inches of the tips are covered. The boy moves along the row backward,
facing the two men who are using the shovels; as they finish one plant
he grasps and bunches another, always having a plant in each hand. This
method is a great time saver, and also enables the work to be done more
neatly than where the plant has to be held while the dirt is drawn from
a distance with the hoe. This earthing up should be repeated every two
or three weeks until it is time to store the celery for the winter.
Immediately before banking, I run the light plow or the cultivator on
each side of the row, which furnishes plenty of fine, loose dirt ready
for use. The soil will pack better and remain in the banked form better
if it is moist when handled, but must not be so wet as to be sticky,
for it would then “rust” or spot the stalk. The plants should be set
in rows five or six feet apart, so that there may be plenty of soil
for the earthing up and room to pass between the rows when banked; the
taller growing varieties will require full six feet between the rows.

About the third week in November the celery should be dug and stored;
for if it is left out longer, there is danger of its being spoiled by
hard freezing. If it is to go in the cellar it should be stood upright
in barrels or in boxes, the sides of which are as high as the stalks
are tall, so as to keep them straight and white; the roots are left on
and packed in moist soil, in order to keep the plants fresh and crisp;
but the soil must not be allowed to come up among the stalks, or it
might cause them to rot. The root cellar must be kept cool and have
plenty of air whenever it can be admitted without freezing the contents
of the cellar.

Another plan is to set the plants on a well-drained plot, side by side
in a long row, three or four plants wide and as closely together as
possible; earth banks are then raised on each side of the row about
four to six inches thick at the top, and the ends closed in the same
manner. The roots are packed solidly in the soil, and the banks are
carried up level with the longest tops; when the very cold weather
sets in the whole top, banks and leaves, is covered with straw, leaves
or corn fodder, to keep the frost out. I would not recommend this
method of storing unless it is expected to have the supply all used
or marketed by the 1st of January. The best way to store celery is in
a hotbed or cold frame, which is built two or three feet deep in the
ground, as already described. The celery plants are set side by side in
this, as in the boxes or barrels, and the roots tightly packed in moist
soil; then the sash can be put on at nights and in the daytime can be
entirely removed or slightly raised to admit air, according to the
temperature. On very cold nights the sash can have an extra covering
of straw or old carpet, and if there is a heavy fall of snow it can be
left on a few days, until the weather again becomes warmer. Stored in
this manner, it is no trouble to get the celery when wanted; it can
be given plenty of air, without which it will not keep, and the late
kinds, if packed closely together, will complete their bleaching. If
the kinds which require blanching are not kept earthed up as the growth
advances, it will be almost impossible to blanch them.
